# Procedurally generated HR Data

By default, a demonstration set of HR data is imported into the MySQL database to `hr.hr_people`. SELECT access to this table is granted to the `identityiq` user. In the Compose and Swarm modes, this database is accessible as `db`.

All data is procedurally generated by a program developed at IDW. No record is intended to resemble any real-life individuals.

## Description of the data

This data represents an imaginary medium-sized grocery store corporation.

The data has these properties: 

* There are around 8,500 full-time and part-time employees.
* There are two affiliate companies (Primary Grocers Inc and Affiliate Grocers Inc) which have separate manager hierarchies and locations. 
* A few people may have a record at more than one company. For example, Jim worked as a cashier at Affiliate, then quit, then later took a job at Primary. 
* Rehire practices are perfect. Identities will have no more than one record per company.
* The manager hierarchy is a consistent tree with multiple layers of managers depending on department size. Managers are mapped by employee number.
* The full assortment of employment situations is represented: hired but not started, current employee, future end dates, terminated, rehired.
* A small subset of users are current employees on leave (status `L`).

The `employee_number` field is intended as the unique ID.

## Fake SSNs

The dataset includes an `ssn` field with SSN-formatted randomly generated values. These values begin with 9xx so are not valid SSNs. This field is intended for demonstrating or practicing PII management.

## Additional datasets are available!

Arbitrarily larger or smaller randomly-generated HR data sets are available on request. 

We also have generated higher ed identity datasets. These feature common higher-ed situations like:

* Users coming from multiple simultaneous data sources (applicants, students, faculty, staff, alumni, contractors)
* Users having different lifecycles per affiliation
* Class and degree history
* Decades of alumni 
* Affiliated hospital staff who may also be professors
* Corrupted or mistaken data from some sources

University data sets can be as small as 4,000 identities or as large as several million.

# Target database

A pair of provisioning target tables are also created in the MySQL database under the database `target`. These tables are defined in `iiq-build/sql/target.sql`. They are:

* `users`: A table containing user details, such as username, first name, and last name. The table is pre-populated with a system administrator user called _admin_.
* `roles`: A table containing roles, intended for use as entitlements. The roles are all pre-populated.
* `roles_users`: A table joining users to the roles they are assigned.
* `roles_permissions`: Associates roles (by name) with permissions. Each role can have more than one permission. The permissions are pre-populated. These can be used for playing with SOD policies.

Full CRUD access to these tables is granted to the `identityiq` user.